[Music]
Today we're
squatting low bar cuz I'm a powerlifter.
But guess what? I've got a special guest
for you. His name's Kyle Bruce and he's
an Olympic weightlifter. Represents
Australia, I believe, in the 90ish
kilogram division, maybe even lighter.
He's a super strong dude. And he's going
to be showing you the difference between
a well, he's not going to be showing you
the difference. He's going to show you
the high bar squat while I show you the
low bar squat. And we're going to
explain the differences so that you know
because there are many
differences. Now, both of us are
performance athletes. So, I'm a
powerlifter and he's a weightlifter. So
neither of us do this for aesthetics
even though it's nice to look good of
course and you know building muscles are
a result of training with weights even
if it's for performance but the primary
goal is performance. Secondary goal uh
is aesthetics. So I'm also going to be
explaining to you the muscles that we're
using for a low bar compared to the
muscles that we're using for a high bar
squat so that you are better informed
next time you do your squat sessions.
Like I'm a mentor as well and as a coach
I like to hold myself accountable for if
someone asks me the question why am I
doing this whatever it is why am I doing
the exercise why am I doing these reps
why am I doing these sets whatever it is
if you pay if you charge money for a
program and someone asks you that
question they deserve to know the answer
I'm going to start warming up so Kyle's
not here yet um so why am I warming up
I'll tell you why because I like to take
my time with my warm-ups and I'm 43
years old and he's a not younger than
me. And I'll tell you how young guys
train, young guys and
girls, is they come in and you'll see
how fast he's able to warm up. I'm sure
of it. I've never trained with him
before. And usually they're the ones
that say, "Oh, you don't need to warm up
for
long." You
know, maybe he doesn't. I mean, I didn't
used to have to warm up for this long
when I was younger, but as I've gotten
older, I love to take my time with the
warm-ups. So, starting with my
favorite warm-up exercise for the knees
is the leg press through the balls of
the feet. Taking the knee joint through
the full range of
motion. I don't know how many reps. 50.
We'll go for I don't know how many. Is
that 10? I'll do heaps more.
And then I'm going to go heavier and
heavier and heavier, right? until I get
to warming up on the squat. So, by the
time uh Kyle gets
here, I should be up
to I don't even know, maybe just an
empty
barbell, but it'll take me, you know, 15
minutes. 15 minutes to warm up to get to
an empty barbell. I squatted on Monday.
It's Friday now. Normally I do heavy
squats on Monday and then my secondary
day which is usually Thursday is a light
squat session. It's my accessory work um
which is uh lighter squats usually a
quad dominant pattern to build
quadriceps. So different to my low bar
squats plus my Romanian deadlifts. I've
actually done an entire video on that um
one of my previous videos. You should
check it out. But then when I spoke to
Kyle and he said he's coming in, we'll
do some squats. I thought this is a good
opportunity to do a video for you guys
on low bar squats versus high bar
squats. So that's why I thought instead
of squatting on Thursday, I'll wait for
him on Friday so I get an extra day's
rest, but I'm going to try and squat
heavy again. So usually I teach people
don't do big spine loading two two big
spine loading sessions in the same week.
Your body needs to recover, right? So I
did on Monday 260 kg for a set of four.
That was my top set. bunch of
accessories and hopefully I'm not too
fatigued and I'm going to be able to go
heavy again. So, next week I was
planning for next for today to be my
accessory day and next Monday to be my
next heavy day. My programming structure
is heavy single and then rep work the
next week and then heavy single the next
week, then rep work the next week. So, I
did So, get this. I did 260 for a
triple. No, I did 280 for a single. Then
the next week 260 for a triple. Then the
next week 285 for a single. Then the
next week 260 for four. That was that
was Monday. And then next week was meant
to be heavier than 285 for a
single. And 285 last week was tough.
Like that was my limit. So if I go
heavier than 285, it'd be
290. I don't know if I'll get it.
But that's the logical progression.
Anyway, I'm going to work towards it.
Usually, I know by the last warm-up set
if I can do it. Um, and if it's there,
I'm going to go for 290, which will be
cool because I haven't done that number
in
years. And I haven't done that number
with just knee sleeves um ever at this
body
weight. So, I'm 100 kg. My best squat in
sleeves is 320 paused, but I was heavier
then.
by about 15 kg. Right? So now these
numbers are all personal best territory.
So my best was last week 285. So if I
get 290, that's another PB at this body
weight. That'll be good. You know, I'd
be super happy with it. Except 290 is
not the number. The goal is 300. Our
goal is 290 today. It's the stepping
stone to 300, which I know I'll get to.
I know I'll get to 300, but it takes
time. As always, we start with an empty
bar. Yes, I'm belted, but it's the
loosest setting on the belt. I just like
to make everything as easy as
possible. So, this is a 30 kg barbell.
Well, 25. And the collars are two and a
half each. So, the barbell plus the
collars is 30.
Maybe I'll do one more set of an empty
bar. Even though it's an empty
bar, when I get heavier and heavier, I
get warmer and warmer, I'm looking for
the depth. So, I like to be able to be I
like to be able to achieve depth with no
weight on my back. That's how I know I'm
kind of
warm.
So, I'm quite tight and I've taught
myself to be tight under these loads so
that my max tension is kind of like at
that point where I have
to like stand back up again, right?
That's what I want to be bouncing. So,
bouncing off the end stretch of those
muscles. So, I've positioned my feet in
a way
braced. See that point where it just
bounces? Boom. Boom. That's the end
stretch of my muscles.
And as I get warmer and warmer, that
point kind of gets deeper and deeper.
So, I like to be able to come to the
first weight and hit depth with an empty
barbell, which I can. I'll do one more
set. My shoulders are very tight, which
is another reason why I hold the bar so
wide. That's, you know, if you look at
the best powerliffters in the world and
the best strong men, they all have to
hold the bar really
wide because they have strong shoulders
and they've trained that way.
Feels good.
We got a few comments. I think we need
to name this television.
I saw
that. We'll think of
something. Well, is it a boy or a girl?
It would be unfair if I didn't let you
guys help me choose the name. So, please
help me name um you know, my my homie.
This is my homie who is always there for
me whenever I do my heavy lifts. You
know, look at me. I don't have many
friends around. Not many people here.
So, uh, you know, my
homie, help me come up with a name.
Hello. Hey. Welcome. Welcome. How are
you, R? Very good. How are you? I'm
good, brother. What's up? How you doing?
It's been a while.
Wow. Smile. You're on camera.
How are you? Yeah. Good. So, I just
spent the last half an hour warming up
because that's how long I take. Go, bro.
I I knew that would be the case. He's
He's already warm. He looks He looks at
the plate and he's warm.
All right. Today, we've got some special
guests here. They're Olympic
weightlifterss. And we're going to go
through two different types of squats.
Well, actually three because I just
found out we got the front squat, the
high bar squat, and I'm going to be
doing a powerlifting low bar squat. And
we're going to go through the
differences between all three. But I'm
going to let you listen to these guys
introduce themselves. So, my name is
Kyle Bruce. I'm a 2022 Comworth Games
silver medalist. 2024 Paris Olympian.
I've been weightlifting for about 10
years now. Um, and just everything
weightlifting. See this? Hang on before
we go over there. See that? You don't
just get those tattoos. You got to earn
that stuff. So, he's an Olympic level
weightlifter. So, this is absolutely a
pleasure to have these guys in here. Uh,
my name is Isabella Ramsey. I'm the
owner as well as Carl of Uplift Gym and
I have represented Australia in
weightlifting. Do my national records in
snatch and I've been weightlifting for
yeah 10 years since I was 16. live and
breathe the sport weight liifting. So,
what are we going to do today? So, I'm
going to do high bar back squats. I'm
going to do some triples at 220 speed
squats. A little bit different to how
you squat, but we're going to talk about
that in the video, which is going to be
great. Definitely. Uh maybe a single 240
like that. Um Isabelle is going to be
doing some some front squats, Olympic
weightlifting style. So, full rack on
the bar. Um probably work up to maybe
like 140 for a single. See how we go.
Here we go. Let's go. I've never seen a
chick do a front squat 140 kg. So,
that's going to be that's going to be a
first. Funny where your mouth is now.
Yeah. Yeah. What are you doing? This is
240 back squats. All right. Easy. You're
not going to go too crazy. So, I know
you've done better than 240. Is that
right? Yeah. So, my best back squat ever
is 275 kg high bar like that. But, you
know, we'll talk about this later in the
video, but for me, I don't need to squat
super heavy. I just need the reps to be
nice and fast so my Olympic lifts
feeling fresh. So, exactly. That's what
I always talk about when we do a squat
in our program. We've got to figure out
why do you want to do it? For me, I want
to squat the heaviest weight possible
because I'm a powerlifter. That's my
goal. But with weightlifting, the goal
is a clean and jerk and a snatch. and
the squat an accessory exercise. So
that's why typically I should say, you
know, typically but not all the time,
weightlifters aren't going for as heavy
as powerliffters, but they're still damn
strong. Oh yeah, for sure. We still
squat frequently. I'm squatting five,
six times per week, almost every single
session, but always at that 75, 85%
range. So you're never really maxing out
your squats. Never maxing out, but just
fast reps like that, you know, just
trying to keep the legs ticking over so
I'm fresh for the ellipt lifts and also
have sufficient leg strength for those
heavier clean jerks. Okay. Yeah. So,
that's Well, you got to do weightlifting
after this. I'll do Yeah, I'll do some
weightlifting after this as well. We'll
get that going and uh should be keen.
Let's go. Exciting. Let's do it. Warm
ups. We're going to start with the bar.
Be a good athlete. 70, 120, 170, 220.
Like that. Let's get it. You guys will
be finished your whole [__] session
by the time I get to my top set. No,
it's good, man. That's good.
Powerlifting squats.
Nice. Nice. Noticing the way you squat.
You squat a lot wider coming out. Is
that my hands? Is that all just the Is
that just thoracic extend? Are you a bit
tighter? Like Cuz you'll notice when I
squat today, I'm squatting like like
literally right in like that, which is
how I teach it. Yeah, which is hold the
bar as close as your shoulder mobility.
That was such a good point cuz everyone
looks at me and they go I thought you
teach close grip. I'm like I do. That's
as close as I can get. Yeah. So watch
watch what I do. Like I take so long to
get under the bar cuz my shoulders are
so damn tight. Um but I'm trying to
bring it every set as I get warmer and
warmer. I bring it closer a little bit.
Ah, gotcha. Yeah, I watch out for that.
Yeah, that's interesting. It's a good
way to warm the shoulders up, too. Just
slowly bring it in every single set like
that. You know, I do a similar thing
when I'm doing full snatch for
weightlifting. I start very close. Yeah.
Because that really makes it tight
overhead. And then as it gets heavy, I
slowly bring it out so it sits back a
bit more in the thoracic. Great
mobility. Weightlifterss have great
mobility. We we try. It's very
important. Yeah, for sure.
[Music]
So check this out. So that's a high bar
squat and it's I would say my high bar
squat is even lower than that. So I'm
trying to find the cheats to kind of
like my high bar would probably consider
be considered a mid bar by you. But the
objective of a of a high bar squat for a
weightlifter isn't to squat the most
weight. It's positional, right?
Absolutely. Really good coming out. So
how do you want to how do you want to be
like what's what's the body position
that you need from a high bar squat
that's going to carry over as possible?
squeezing squeezing those shoulder
blades back. Trying to be as quad
dominant as possible because when we're
in a clean position like that, trying to
be nice and quad dominant. You got to be
upright upright as possible. Yeah. So,
it's what I say with weightlifters.
Their goal isn't really building
muscles. It's lifting weight. But, as a
result of a weightlifting squat, look at
the quads on these guys. I'm going to
I'm going to put my shorts down today
because these guys outdo me as my in the
quad department. But that's why a high
bar squat. And look at the shoes as
well. So, elevated heels. I'm using
flats. So, I bet you these guys have the
mobility to go ask the grass with flats,
but a weightlifting shoe optimizes the
position, which is look at that. So,
he's upright, knees are
forward so that he can have a more
upright position. Whereas, when you have
a look at me, I'll show you now. My
knees will be a lot further back. How
old are you? What's that? Uh, 25 years
old. Yeah, 25. So, it's 10 years
training. I'm still a baby.
I'll do my warm up stuff at home cuz I
actually I don't want to sort of like
spend half an hour. I take a long time
to warm up, bro. Like, okay. Spend about
30 minutes warming up, you know, just
doing all Yeah, I'm very Okay. I'm very
like a lot of people think elite level
weightlifterss, they just chuck the
shoes on and train. Like, no, I'm very
diligent with the mobility stuff I'm
doing. I didn't think that about
weightlifters. I thought that about
young athletes. Yeah. Look, because you
guys um you know, as you get to a little
bit older, my joints don't feel as young
as what they used to. 100%. Um, but so
talk to me. What do you do for your
normal warm-ups? So, usually I'll do
some upper back stuff, shoulders,
thoracics. So, I'll do some banded YTWs
just to get my rear delts sort of active
like that. Um, I'll do a lot of hip,
ankle work, so goblet hip rocks like
that. Um, I love doing the big three as
well. Make sure my core is working,
glutes, hamstring. The thing with
Olympic weightlifting, and this is the
most important thing, it's such a quad
dominant and lower back sport. like
we're using our lower back, our rectus,
we're using our quadriceps so much. So,
we got to really make sure our hamstring
and glutes are super strong, our
posterior chain. If we don't train the
posterior chain enough, you're going to
start getting those tend not fees.
You're going to get that bad knees.
You're going to start getting back pain,
all those things. So, it's really
important that the glutes and hamstrings
are active. So, we do a lot of posterior
chain work in Olympic lifting. Yeah. Oh,
good.
Do you do that
with the Australian strength coach? We
do
anything. Just for show.
Look how quickly the warm-ups are. So,
we got 100. We got 95 kilos over there.
I ain't doing those calibrated plates
today, bro. Yeah. You call the metal
ones calibrated plates. These are
bumpers, right? But they're still
calibrated. So, that's why when Oh,
yeah. True. Why why use calibrated
plates? I promise you they're
calibrated. This is a great point.
Squeeze 95.
That's 95, right? So that's uh just so
that you guys know, this is a
weightlifting bar. Uh it's a 15 15 kg. I
got in trouble last time I said it's a
girls bar, but in the Olympics,
the female competitors use a 15 kilogram
barbell. That's the female bar and the
and that's the yellow sticker that you
see and the menus the 20 kilogram bar.
So that's why whenever you're adding it
up, so this would normally be 100 if
you're doing a 20 kg bar, but that's 95.
Okay. So I need to do the calculations
as well. I think that's
105. Yeah, 105. And then I'm going to go
up in um small increments
um and I'm going to try and get to a
heavy single. So check out a few of the
things that we're doing. I'm doing a low
bar squat. Um as he mentioned, my hands
are very wide compared to his, but I'm
still trying to bring them close. So I'm
still trying to aim for a close grip,
but check this out. I'm in a low bar
position. So I rest the barbell on
my rear delts. Okay? So that's that's
this is where I would rest the bar in a
high bar position. Probably about here.
So when you look at me, that's like a
mid bar, right? Yeah. Yeah. Right in
that spot. Yeah. Yeah. I would say
that's mid bar. So you're kind of up
here. Yeah. Which which for me is just
not as strong, but as we mentioned, he's
not trying to get a squat record. He's
trying to strengthen his position that
has a carryover to weightlifting. So um
let's uh I'll add on a little bit of
weight and we'll go side view on some of
these lifts as well so that you can see.
Let's check out Kyle's lifts. Right.
Nice and high bar on his upper
traps. Nice close
grip. And he's focused on exploding
speed out of the hole. So everything
with weightlifting is speed. Speed
speed. That's all that's all I know,
bro. Yeah.
You know, with with powerlifting, you
don't have to be fast. Yeah. Yeah. And
that's the thing, man. Like with
weightlifting, I just stay in my own
lane. Like I feel like I know
weightlifting well. powerlifting,
strongman, all that. I don't got a clue.
So, educate me, bro. You know, I I'll
educate you on the need on the need for
weightlifting in strong man. So, these
days, uh, at the last Arnold, there's an
event called The Big Jerk. Yeah. Yeah, I
saw that. It wasn't quite a big joke.
They're doing push presses cuz they
don't have um mobility, it's not the
mobility, the core stability as well to
hold it, coordination. So, they're doing
push presses. They're doing push presses
except for the winner who's coached by a
weightlifter. So his name's um Lucas
Haten and he did I believe it was a 247
and a half kilo uh jerk. Wow. You know
from behind the n with beautiful
weightlifting technique and sort of
position like that like that and he had
plenty more in the tank. So all he did
was uh won the event. He could have gone
a lot heavier. So a lot of events now so
it's kind of like trending. So, in
strongman, you'll see it at one of the
big events, but now you're going to see
heaps and heaps more um big jerk events
or behind the neck. I love that. That's
so good. You're incorporating
weightlifting. You know, why do they go
behind the neck, not stronger? Really?
I'm guessing as a weightlifter behind so
much. What about the thoracic
legor? I can
But you're an elite level Olympic
weightlifter. These people, they're not
training that like I doubt they're front
squatting like on a full grip. You know
what I mean? So, for them, behind the
neck would be Personally, I disagree. I
feel like behind neck is a much stronger
movement. Think about the back squat
versus front squat. What's a more
stronger position? So, you get more
power to get a car from carry over from
the leg drive. So, I'll tell you now.
It's crazy though because the biggest
jerk ever recorded for weightlifting
history is 275 and it was from the front
really. So, but the best behind is 270
that we know of. I'll tell you now. Uh
Lucas Haden is going to be challenging
that if he gets if he gets the
opportunity because the way that he did
the 272 uh sorry the the two 47 we kind
of discussed that he's kind of ready for
600 lb which is 272. 272. Yeah. Wow.
Yeah. And it's kind of like something
that he doesn't really practice that
much. But the guy is probably 150 kg or
a little bit more. So they're massive,
right? That's for a super that's quite
light in weightlifting. Most most of
those big boys are 170 180 plus. So, so
Big Lasher, he's the best. He's like
185, 190 19. There's another guy that's
challenging him now. Iranian. He's 195
kilos. Is he? Yeah, he's a big boy. He's
like 4 420 odd pounds. Bit of
perspective. Hey, big moves mass. Yeah,
literally. And he's fast, too, man.
Yeah. But something I He's very fast,
but something I say with technique is,
you know, I love watching the super
heavy weights. That's super impressive.
It's the most impressive. However, when
you want to emulate someone's technique,
I'd say that the lighter lifters uh
would be far more technical because they
don't rely on their mass. That's true.
Uh to to shift heavy loads. So, if you
want to learn lifting technique, it's
it's a spectacle to look at the super
heavy weights, but better off. This
might be controversial, but watch the
chicks. Watch the girls. They I feel
like they lift with far better technique
and position, better flexibility. I feel
like, you know, I always tell my
lifters, watch watch light females, man.
Yeah.
Beautiful.
Is that 105? No. 10. 10.
110. Yeah. So, with the warm-ups, um,
Kyle just noticed that I'm doing singles
now, but what he didn't see was me doing
tons and tons of reps on leg press, and
then I did like two sets of 10 on an
empty barbell, right? So, now I'm
actually warm. So, now it's just feeling
the weight. So, now it's just singles
all the way up to the top set. Gotcha.
So, look how fast you guys are. You're
up to you're going to be doing 180, so
130. Let's go.
Nice. Easy work. Depth. Difference in
depth. Yep. Right. So, for a
powerlifter, the goal is to get the
crease of the hip. Yep. Can you see it
through there? The crease of the hip
below the top of the knee. Um, but for a
weightlifter, there's no depth
requirement. But what are you aiming
for? As deep as I can go. We we've
keeping my spine in that nice flex
position as well. I don't want to go too
loose like that. But sometimes in
snatching as well, we need to sort of
give a bit of flexibility in the back to
save some of those heavier reps. But
generally speaking, like that. But you
want to slam it as deep as you can.
hamstrings press against your calf more.
Yeah. As much as possible. Absolutely.
Yeah. Good. Love it. Like we said
before, I'm just trying to move that
weight as quickly as possible. So,
see it. All right. 180.
Nice. Nice.
Uh, what's this?
150 I think.
Easy.
The depth is perfect though for a
powerlifter. That's That's I would
stereotypically think that's more than a
powerlifter. I don't know. Well, I'll
tell you something. Depending on the
federation, depends on what you see. A
lot of the high level comps, the refs
can be a little bit lenient. I get. So,
a lot of the world records that you see
in like the rap division, that's the
super heavyweights, they're typically
not quite to death. Yeah. Cuz you you're
coaching half for I saw he did a comp a
few years back and he kept getting red
light for the death with the raps. He
was in like 450. So, he got 460. So, he
got 440 which was allowed. Um, but then
I'll tell you what happened. Uh the
numbers that he was going for was world
record level. And the ref is the most
reputable coach or ref in the world. His
name is Boris Shico. Yes, I've heard of
it. And he said to Thor before, he said,
"The higher the level athlete and the
higher the accolade, the more strict I
need to be because it's going to go
viral." Yeah. So, I need you to hit
depth with no exception. And um yeah, so
he hit the the what is normally
considered good depth. Um and he got red
lights, so I was like, "Oh, really?"
Yeah. you know, which is fair to be
completely honest with you. Boris Shico
said, "This is the standard. I want you
to hit it." Um, and he was a little bit
high, very controversial because the the
front ref, so that's Boris Chico, he's
not allowed to call for depth. No,
that's the job for the side ref. So, if
depth looks okay for the front, he's not
allowed to call depth, but he did call.
That's that's why it was a little bit
controversial. But either way, that's
correct. So, that's um borderline depth.
Um, but a lot of the times pretty good
to me. people get away with a lot
shallower depth than that in
powerlifting competition. Um, but that's
the heavier weight. They've also got a
lot of mass, so you can't really see it
as well. The skinnier guys like me, you
can see the creases.
So, you got to hit the depth. I'm just
sorting out these guys. What are you
doing today? You going to deadlift?
Obviously, notice.
Yeah.
What's that? 120? Yeah.
Okay. Beautiful.
We're chucking on some uh light
pharmaceutical wraps. So, just gives a
little bit more spring out of that
bottom. Again, trying to work on that
speed out of the squat. Doesn't really
like I would by no means say these are
powerlifting wraps or anything. They
literally I just go to the pharmacy and
just get like some bandages. Just gives
a bit more support in my knee. Keeps my
knees feeling a bit better. And again,
just helps that bounce a little bit. So,
and I'll keep them on for the whole
session. It's not tight, but I got to
take them off.
Easy.
Perfect.
Beautiful squat. Thank you. You know,
it's feeling okay. There's a few little
differences as you have uh if you've
been following. I normally squat over
here with a little bit of mirror and I
look in the mirror
for for the depth. So now I'm kind of
doing that a little bit blind, which
actually could be an advantage. Uh
because sometimes you don't want to be
thinking when you get to the top set. I
don't want to be looking to say, am I
hitting depth? I just want to feel and
just hit it. Um but either way, 170.
It's hard to say if I'm going to be able
to add an extra 120 kg to that. I'm
going to
try Easy.
Nice. Come on.
Very good. Easy peasy. Still a bit red
with that. Easy peasy. Good job, bro.
So, that was 220 for a triple. a lot of
differences with what we're doing. So,
what I'm doing now is I'm warm. I'm
trying to think about what am I going to
do when I hit my top weight. So, that's
what I'm trying to replicate here. Uh,
but that type of that's constant
tension. That's a lot harder. Um, and if
you have a ever have a look at me doing
reps, I'll do a rep, wait, breathe,
reset, rep. Uh, but that stuff that's
that's brutal. Feels easy, but yeah. I
don't know. Like I said, I'm just
weightlifting. I don't know squats.
Nice.
Easy. Beautiful
spot. What's that? 190.
Nice. Beautiful.
[Applause]
Good job. Thanks, bro. So, that's
another thing that I often talk about
with uh strength athletes is not going
to fail and leaving repetitions in
reserve. Yep. So, this is your working
weight. Yep. You could do way more reps
than that. I could probably do Yeah. 10,
I reckon. Like, if if you put a gun to
my head, but but that would be I believe
the way that that's moving, but it's
important to see the goal isn't. So, so
if your goal is muscle building, you
want to take the movements close to
fail. Um but the goal is strength and
speed. And when the bar starts slowing
down, that's kind of that's how that's
how cute to stop. 100%, man. That's it.
Yes.
125. Is that right? Yeah. 125 double
double if you want and go 35 double rep
for me. All right. When I was younger,
we used to do a lot more double sessions
cuz weightlifting obviously relative to
powerlifting, the percentage is a lot
lighter. lower load and higher skill.
Yeah. Yeah, that's right. But we can
practice it more frequently. Um, but as
I've gotten a little bit older, I mean,
I'm still young, but 25 compared to 18,
I do feel a noticeable difference of
recovery. So, I don't really do double
sessions as much as I used to. Maybe 2 3
months out of a competition, I might do
eight sessions a week, maybe two double
days, but it's just really light
refinement, you know, but once you get
to a high level in weightlifting, you
don't really need to practice the skill
that much cuz it's quite autonomous and,
you know, you have the skill set there
sort of thing. So, yeah. Great point. So
that's uh for powerliffters. Well, for
me, um some powerlters train more than
me, but for me, four days a week and I'm
smashed. Yeah. Wow. Um you know, if I'm
going light, like if I take time off
training for a while and I come back and
I'm not going heavy, I can do I love
training more. So I'll do 5 days a week,
but then I get to the point when I get
to heavy again, I can't recover from it.
And that's and that's why because
absolute loads are more fatiguing than
the light. Like we say light 220 for
three. It's not really light, but it's
light for him as you can see. Which is
why they can do the high frequency.
they're saving so many reps in reserve.
It's a very low RP. So, it's all about
skill acquisition and repetition and and
not training to fatigue. So, um that's
the difference between weightlifting and
actually when I first started um trying
to get a good squat, I was looking up to
the Bulgarian method. Yes. And that's,
you know, these are guys popularized
daily and double day and maxing out so
frequently. And I thought, okay, I want
a good squat and these guys had good
squats. I'm going to do that. There's a
very big difference. They're doing skill
work, so they're maxing out snatches and
cleaning jokes, and the absolute loads
are a lot lower, which is why they can
get away with and and why they benefit
from high frequency is skill, skill,
skill, skill. Absolutely. Yeah, that
makes so much sense. For sure. Love it.
Nice.
Go on.
the age. I'm always the oldest guy in
the room now. Uh it's just how it is. It
didn't used to be that way. I swear
that's what you guys are going to find.
Yeah. Eventually when you're my age,
everyone, you're going to be the old
ones as well. It's what happens. It's
what happens. But um yeah, no, it's not
that I'm training with younger people.
I'm That's I always train with younger
people. Um but I love training with
athletes to be honest with you. Um it's
just one of those things where although
it's a different sport, these guys are a
high level. They obviously understand
hard work. And something that I say a
lot of is if people don't train very
well and they come in a room and they
start cheering you on and they don't
understand what it feels like to be
pushing hard, it's just noise when they
scream, "Come on, let's go." Like all of
this, it seems like it's encouragement.
Um, but a lot of the times it's a
distraction. Unless of course, you know,
I'm work that's why I love training with
lifters that understand what it feels
like. So when these guys are like, "Come
on, let's go." It's it's quite
motivating. Um, so that's a tip for a
lot of people. Uh, if you're if you're a
newbie and you're watching some, uh, you
know, big lifts,
keep quiet. Shut the [__] up. Yeah. Kind
of kind of because sometimes I swear one
of my one of my pet hates is when I do
something annoying, bro. When I do
something [__] and I know it's [__] and
everyone's like, "Yeah, sick." I'm like,
"Yeah." Yeah. It's like that's 100
killers less than my best. I'm
depressed. Don't talk to me about that.
Strong. Strong.
Easy. Fantastic.
Yeah. Nice. Very easy. Very easy. All
about that speed, but it hurts.
Beautiful, man. Beautiful. Thanks,
brother. I appreciate it. Strong at base
gym. Let's go. I see all your videos at
at the North Sydney base gym. Yeah.
Yeah. I used to see all like when are
you going to bring that video? When are
you going to throw the belt? It's like,
no, I've kind of matured since then,
bro. I don't get that angry. But but
yeah, I had the strong [__]
t-shirt. I love that shirt, bro. And
then I'll tell you what happened. I met
Thor Bjönson and and then and he wore
the t-shirt and it went viral. So, it
was a photograph of him walking New York
City with his with his misses at the
time. And he's like, "Massive guy, short
motherfucker." I'm like, "You know what?
That [__] shirt doesn't suit me anymore.
It suits you, though." So, yeah. So,
that's his uh that's his brand now.
That's his now. That's it. We can't
Yeah, I won't wear that then. I don't I
don't I don't feel strong enough when
I'm standing next to him, you know?
Yeah, bro. For sure. Problem? What's the
problem? No, that's okay. That's why I'm
changing the colors, right? So, I was
going to do I was going to do red red
and then four blues, which would equal
290, but I'm going to do it the
oldfashioned way, which is going to be
We've got a few strong people training
today. Five reds. That's right. Just a
few. That's right.
Yep.
Nice. Come
on. Push. [__] easy. [__] yeah. Yeah.
Damn.
And then I'll go back down. Easy. 30 for
one. 35 for two. For two. Woo. So, what
are you going to do? 35 for two. Okay.
Better than 40 for one. Okay.
225. Oh, yeah. 25 kilo. Let's go,
brother. Easy.
Easy, bro. Yep.
You know, it's too far away from the top
to see if I'm going to Yeah. be strong
enough for the number. I can't really
tell until usually like 40 50 off. Yeah.
People ask me at like 70 kilos like,
"Oh, you reckon you?" I'm like, "I don't
know. I have no idea, man. That's it.
This is supposed to feel comfortable."
You'd think after like 20 years of
training you would have a better game.
It just never never gets there. Yeah.
Yeah.
You got to try
270. Would that be a Well, that's Yeah,
that's what's going to tell me if I've
got 290 in me or not. That's 245. 245.
I'll do 245 to 270 290 like that.
I've got 250. 50 70 90. There you go.
That's what I'm going to do. What's next
for you? Um I'm going to do some
snatches. Yeah, we'll see how the legs
feel after squats, but maybe just up to
like 140 for a few reps sets. Maybe
three reds, blues, not reds. We'll see
how we go. Just going to warm ourselves
up. Go.
So, that means I got three more sets.
I'm going to start switching on now.
Let's
go.
Let's go, brother. Easy for you. Go.
Yeah. Nice.
Easy.
Easy. Thank you. Hard to say. Thank you.
270 first. Yeah. Exactly like that. You
know, move
on. Let's see. Yeah.
Yep.
Yes. Yes. Go. Okay. There we go. Struck
out.
That's good. Enough. Yeah.
[Music]
That's
good. [__] I put up a prayer, bro. I
have to put up a prayer to get this one.
90.
[__] I'm nervous. I'm just going to I'm
just going to sit in silence for a bit.
Perfect.
Yep.
You're not thinking about much when
you're going into a top set. just sort
of just blank mind, focus everything.
Yeah. Don't miss. Just don't [__] up.
That's it. Yeah, bro. 100%, man. Like,
you know how many times I've gone for
lifts and then you stop if you like I've
misl
you just stop [__] pushing. That's
why you missed it because you didn't
[__] try. Lost focus. That's it. You
just didn't try to. Yeah. For sure. You
just got to try hard enough. You know
what I mean? Yeah. Exactly. Sometimes.
Of course. Sometimes it's just [__]
heavy. Sometimes it's too heavy. I'm get
a cheeky.
Come
on. Let's [__]
[Music]
work. Come on. Let's go.
[__] Scared the [__] out of me, man.
[__] yeah. Oo, that's hype. Yeah, I was
going to say that I'm dead now.
Epic.
Dude, mate, I swear when I have [__]
you know, we say we don't know until
it's on. Dude, I thought at 200 I wasn't
getting this. I was like, "This is so
heavy."
Yeah, bro. Not gonna lie. I saw the 50
move and I was like, "We'll see, bro.
We'll see where we go." Everything is
heavy. The 70 move good, though. Like 70
move. I was like, "He's got it, bro.
He's got it." You know, like you kind of
have to bring more intensity every time.
Absolutely. And not come in. So, that's
um something that This is my strategy
anyway. Getting too psyched up with the
lighter weights. No, it's unnecessary.
Tie yourself out. Exactly. It's
fatiguing, right?
That's also why the 200s feel heavy
because I'm not psyched up for it. It's
like it's it's easy weight so it should
be easy. So you do it and it's like oh
that felt harder than what it should be.
Anyway, um
[Applause]
PB this body weight. So I got 290. Now
what I'm going to do is some back down
work. So interestingly I was going to um
mention it when you were doing it but I
was focusing. You did the I'm going to
do the reverse order. So he did triples
on 220 3x3 on 220 and then he did his
top set of 240. I'm going to do the
reverse. Yeah. So I'm going to go top
set with back down sets. So something
that I like to do is drop it down to
about 80%. Uh so what's 80% of 290? I
have to calculate that. I think it's
around 230ish. 225.
I would like for it to be 225, but
unfortunately I think it's be heavier.
I'm asking. I'll I'll tell you exactly.
*8. Yeah. 232. Damn it. So 232 is not a
number. So 232.5.
Well, actually we've got weightlifters
here. So we can use we can use the
weightlifting plates. I do. I hate the
weightlifting plates, bro. The 1.25.
They used to do it back in the day.
1.25s. Yeah. Yeah. They used to do it. I
I noticed when I saw some actually I
think it's your weight class. The
cleaning joke world record was 217.5 or
something. Yeah. Yeah. And that's why I
looked at that going, "Hang on a
second." 2004, I think, or 2005 is when
they officially changed it to the 1 kilo
increments, which I honestly hate. I
train with 1.2. Like, if I snatch 140,
I'll go 42.5 or 45. I don't go 43. Don't
you? You don't go hardcore weightlifting
styles. You use that for like I'll tell
you why I use the bum plates. They look
better. They just look cooler. The
smaller plates look like you're not
lifting as much. Yeah, this looks like
it's a lot of weight, right? But if I
use the the calibrated plates, it look
like look like I'm doing one. People go,
"Oh, that's just 120." Yeah, literally.
It's like I promise it's heavier than
120. My lifters would say
[Applause]
sick.
Sick. 130 double. Pretty good. After
with ease. After squats. After squats.
Let's go. Let's go. Free blues. Why not?
Yeah. Yeah. 130 is not a number. No.
Exactly. 140 is. That's it. And then 150
is then. And then 170 is. Hang on. Hang
on. Hang on. What do you reckon you
could get? What was the plan to get
today? Uh 140 was Well, honestly 30 was
the plan. Yeah. But if he hypes up, he
needs to 60 very soon. But I'm here. So
really. Well, let's see how like would
you be open to going up more than 140?
Yeah, we'll see how we go because my
audience would love to see that, I
reckon. I'd like to see that too. And
Bass would as well. Hey,
after a squat, I'd love to see that.
Well, let's see what 140 looks like.
What weight? Last time hanges, maybe 80.
I'm happy with
Yeah. Nice.
I've seen you snatch 100 before.
10. My national record is 102. Insane.
Insane.
I don't see that very often.
It's good. That's good.
Stay.
Oh, stay. [__] you, dude.
I thought he was just going to do one
for two. I thought he was just going to
do one and then he [__] after squats.
He smacks a double,
but I don't know if if you saw that
second one, but like notice how I didn't
stay super upright. I kind of fell a
little bit back on my heels like that
and my my spine flexed a little bit, but
I was saying before in the snatch,
sometimes that's necessary to to save
that position. You know, it's not
optimal, but you know, for those heavier
percentages, it's just necessary
sometimes. Which obviously in a squat is
a big no no or a deadly loss of tension.
Correct. You know, it's it's a
discussion on whether buttwink is good
or bad. And to be honest with you, I I
stay out of the discussion from a rehab
standpoint. Correct. But I go from a
performance standpoint, it's weaker.
It's a loss. It's a loss of tension. So,
you should try and avoid it. Yeah.
Yeah. Let's go. Go.
Yeah. Easy.
Come on, bro.
Nice.
Nice, bro.
You know the the adrenaline dump. Yeah,
bro. It's like I get psyched up with the
top one and now I'm like chilled. Yeah,
bro. And it's a [__] ton. It's hard
to get that back, bro. Hang on a second.
Hang on a second. Hard to get that back.
I just got to say thanks to my homie.
[Laughter]
Easy. Punch up.
That's one. Good. [__] yeah.
Sick.
So good. Thanks, brother. So good.
Thanks, bro. I'm going to teach you to
weight lift, bro.
I'll teach you all weightlifting. [__]
I swear he goes, "Let me try." And he's
walking up. I'm going, "Is Vas going to
try and snatch 140?" [__] Yeah. Yeah.
I don't know if the straps will fit you.
Maybe. He comes in my deadlift seminars
and cold. If there's 300 on the ground,
he'll just deadlift it. Nuts, bro. Yeah,
man. It's so funny. He was benching like
250 at breakthrough once and one of my
clients is like, "Bro, is he benching
that?" I'm like, "I don't think he's
squatting
that." Nice,
Isabelle. Upper body.
Nice. Come on. More brush. Brush on the
thighs. Drag. Drag. Yes. There we go.
Legs, upper body,
everything. Very strong. Very nice. Very
strong. What is your best triple muscle,
Isabelle?
So, we twisted his arm and uh we've got
150 kg on the bar. Oh, don't put
pressure on me. You know,
I had pressure. We got to have a bit of
pressure. That's where we step up. Do
you know what I mean? Let's go, bro.
Let's see. Let's see. So, 150 snatch.
That's uh some serious weight. Yeah,
it's not too bad. What's your best? 160
is my best. Yeah, 160. But you got a
peak for that, right? Yeah. I I wouldn't
do this after a squat. This is quite
heavy. Like probably I think at the
moment I'm probably good for maybe 65
maybe. I'm I'm trying for 170 snatch.
That's what my goal. But you wouldn't do
that after school. As you said, you come
in and do that fresh. You'd warm up. I
progressively overload to it. I'd build
up to it sort of like peak for week 8 to
week 12 sort of like that. You know what
I mean? So right now I'm sort of just
riding out training getting my body
feeling healthy and then when I feel
good I'll sort of prepare for that. But
that's sort of my goal. But for for um
standpoint 160 snatch in the Olympics
would be like top eight. Like the boys
that are meddling are snatching 175 in
the 88 class. Is that right? They're
snatching 75s, 70 78s, 90 80 snatch.
It's strong. They're strong boys. So
when you say 780, you mean 180. 180. 180
kg snatch. Yeah. The Bulgarian. Yeah.
It's crazy, bro. It's messed up. So
who's the Bulgarian? Carlos Nar. Okay.
He's a tank man. Can front squat 270,
back squat 300. No way. Super tall,
lanky dude as well. Like doesn't really
have the lead. I've seen him. I've seen
him. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And uh unreal.
Clean and jerks 230. Smash 185. He's
just in the 88 class. 88 class. Yeah,
that's there there's levels, man.
There's levels to this this racket, bro.
That's it. Yeah. Well, anyway, in bass
gym, it's a pretty good number anyway.
So, so let's hit it then. Let's go.
Let's do it. Let's do it. Your music,
brother. Yeah, bro. Let's chuck it on.
Give me a song. What song? The one you
just had on before was great. Yeah,
good. Same. I like my music, too.
[__]
I thought you just going to go for the
single.
Oh, we tried. You said 50. I was like,
"Oh, try for two maybe." Good, man.
Thanks, brother. That was good.
That was 155. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Kind of
tempted to just put 60 on over crack,
but yeah. Top 10. Yeah. But um 160 165.
When's the next Olympics? Uh LA 2028.
Yeah. So, okay. So, three. Are you going
for it? Um I'm not sure, bro. I'm not
sure at the moment. I took a bit of a
step back after finish in Paris. Pretty
injured and stuff. So now I'm just
trying to get back into a groove of
training. But if things work out well,
yeah, I will I'll try for that. Yeah.
Let's go.
Yes. Nice.
Beast. Beast. That's it. Easy.
strong.
Nice. Come on.
Yeah. Yeah. Nice, brother. Good squats.
You know, the first rep is the hardest
always because it's like, oh, you got to
do three, then it's like with those back
offs, bro. Always. [__] hell. Anyway,
I'm glad I'm done. That's done, bro.
That's good. You just got some accessory
stuff. Is that what you usually? Yeah.
Yeah. Nice. Uh, stiff leg deadlifts. Oh,
nice. Nice.
I don't know. Maybe try. I want to try
it again. I reckon I can do it. You
going to try it again? Yeah, I reckon I
can do it. [__] legend. I can do it,
bro. No. [__] I need to do that. I'm a
base gym, bro. [__] know if you are.
always give it a try. Like if I feel
good for it, bro, I'll have a crack, you
know? But give it that
weightlifting bar cuz it spins a little
bit more. Yeah, exactly. Yeah. And if a
dar doesn't spin, it doesn't sit back
into your wrist. So, it's quite
important to spin.
Nice.
I'll show you.
You're doing hang snatches now. Hang
snatch. Yeah.
Hang's a good variation for
weightlifting when your legs are a bit
tired cuz it doesn't put as much
pressure on your squats. So, like for
me, my normal program today was from the
floor. I did squats before. I'm a base
obviously, of course. So I substituted
my full snatches to hang snatch above
the knee just put a little bit less
pressure on my legs and I can still hit
decent percentages 40s for reps for
singles. So you know it's just sometimes
you change a little bit.
But yeah, there's so there's so many
exercises in weightlifting like the
vocabulary of weightlifting is insane.
So let me ask you something. If you were
to coach someone in like a power sport
like rugby or sprinting or something
like that, a lot of people just do like
weightlifting because they go it's good
for explosion. What would you say the
most like easiest exercises that a like
a sprinter or I I've coached like lots
of athletes like judo, wrestling, rugby,
all those. I never teach them the
classical snatch and cleaner what you
see in the Olympics. Don't don't need to
know it. It's it's just not necessary.
Like you said, it takes too long to
learn and it's just not that important.
So, I'll teach them variation. So, power
snatches, power cleans, a lot of hang
work, block work.
Just like here, pull up just cuz that's
like the
best component of the movement. Clean
pulls. Um, you know, overhead snatch
grip, push presses, like just things
that generate power. The actual snatch
and cleaning jerks really not that
important for them. That's technical but
not huge power. If your goal is not to
go to the Olympics and and do
weightlifting, you don't need to know
it. You know, honestly, like if you I'm
talking more to an athlete that wants to
go to a high level, you know, power
clean or a hang power clean, which one's
better? Probably a hanger. And what
about you get rid of that part? That's
where everyone stuffs it up. Okay. So,
we have three parts in weightlifting.
First pull is from here to here. Second
pull's here. And then technically third
pull is that extension part. So, the
first pull is not explosive. No, not the
second weightlifters can be as slow as
possible here. As long as they're really
fast. Second part's good. Yeah. So,
what's what's involves more power? Hang
power snatch or hang power clean? Hang
power clean's easy to teach because
power snatch requires more shoulder
mobility. Yeah. Yeah. A lot of people
they and with a power clean you can
catch on your fingertip. So if you don't
have great mobility so so top exercise
for a sprinter hang power clean. So all
the power athletes out there that don't
uh need to lift weights in their sport.
Hang power clean is number one.
Absolutely. Yeah. Number two block clean
pools probably. Yeah. I front squat.
Front squat. Just a front squat. Front
squat. Love this
simplicity extension. Elbows. And then
and then one more. We're going to go top
three. So, we're going to go a a hang
power clean dip power snatch just just
from here and then get through like good
throwers. All the track athletes do
that. Just here. Get up. Top three
exercises for the sprinters, the track
athletes, the throwers, the rugby
players, the martial artists. Yeah. Hang
power snatch. Hang power clean. Sorry.
Hang power clean. Front squat. And dip
power snatch. Dip power snatch. There's
your top three. That's what we're good.
What's next? Next for me, I'm going to
do
some stifflegged deadlifts, which I'm
not looking forward to because last week
I did them first and I did 205 kg for
eight.
So now I've got to do 20
kg for eight in a fatigue state. Maybe I
can, maybe I can't.
I feel good and I feel like um I'm just
relieved that I got my squat. So
everything that I do from here, I'm not
going to be disappointed if I'm not
strong enough to do my stiff leg
deadlifts or anything like that. I did a
great squat session, top set, back down
set. Um so percentages, we go top single
and then two sets of three on 80% of the
top weight. So, there's lots of
variations of that. Um, but I'll tell
you a bit about the science. When it
comes to
strength, I'll tell you a bit about the
science. When it comes to strength, you
need to lift heavy. How heavy? Well, a
lot of the research says 80% and plus.
So, less than 80% has lesser of a
carryover to your top end strength,
especially if you're more advanced. So,
beginners get stronger from lighter
weights and lower percentages, but 80%.
So, that's why my backown work is in the
80%. But then you know strength is a
skill and if you want to get good at one
rep maxes like getting over 90% for your
top singles is even more beneficial. So
that's my session. So top single is over
90% and then your back down work is is
uh two to three
sets of 80%. You need to go like three
to five reps. I did three. There were
reps in reserve but it's really damn
hard. But anyway, great session. Um and
now it's just easy stuff. One question.
Was there a moment that like
during the lift. No, during the lift I
was like surprisingly
comfortable, but it was more
um it was kind of like leading up to it.
So unrackcking actually felt okay from
the unrackck, but you never know. Um and
I switch off. So So Kyle asked me, "What
do you think when you're lifting?" It's
like, "No, no, I can't think. Don't
fail. Don't don't fail." Yeah. And
that's all I'm thinking is like, "Do not
stop. Do not stop. do not stop. Um, but
yeah, dur during the lift it felt okay.
And and actually coming up I was like
that was too easy. Like I feel like I
feel like I had more in me. I feel like
it wasn't an absolute limit. Like maybe
a little bit more. Not too much more.
Not 300. Not yet. Uh a little bit more
work to get to the 300, but um yeah,
really happy with that.
[Music]
He told you that.
That's a muscle snatch. Muscle
snatch. Easy.
You going to try and do that, V? Yeah.
Did you warm up on 60? He did 60 very
easily. He did. Okay. He do.
Huh? Was easy for you, bro. Yeah.
[Laughter]
Oh, that's so funny. That's upsetting.
That's so funny.
[Laughter]
You know what I noticed about
weightlifterss? They don't care about
the colorful plates and and all of that
stuff. So, it's like I look at that. How
much weight is it? I can't even tell.
That's 75 kg.
[Applause]
Is there anyone else in this like where
do you rank in Australia? Rank one.
You're first. You're the best
weightlifter in Australia for your
weight class. Uh no over. No way. For
the last So like Sinclair total kind of
thing. Body weight to weight like wheels
like whatever. Yeah. Body weight to
weight. Yeah. Yeah, single for the last
5 years. Sick. Number one. I never knew
that. Yeah. Sick. Well, like registered
weightlifter. Of course. Like that, you
know. But uh yeah, we have a [__]
legend in our We do. Trust me.
The It's not that impressive in
Australia. If I go to another country,
different story. So So, so world world
level is insane, right? Yeah. World like
Yeah. In the world, I'm ranked 12th,
13th like that, which still pretty
insane. Yeah. Yeah. But yeah, in
Australia it's not as popular. You know,
Olympic people think powering is way
more popular. Yeah. But yeah, it's cool.
I notic the shoes you wore for your
squats. You don't you ever you don't
wear heel elevated for squats. Sometimes
if I do a high bar squat, if I do a high
bar squat, I've got um same sho Well,
the the Nikes or actually the Adidas,
but yeah, heel elevation for sure. But
for this one, I want to use my hips. So
having the heel elevation, the knees
come forward, which is great for quad
building, but my hips are stronger. This
is all like the way that I do it is all
back for sure. But then I normally will
do complimentary exercises like quad
building like I don't know if you've
seen I do I stand on like the red plate
high heel elevation so that I can get
maximum maximum knee bend and be as
upright as possible
to 60. Damn. Yeah. No, I used to be able
to. That's even harder. But but I
literally can't achieve that position.
No. But yeah, but it was funny because I
I wasn't front squatting and Sunny comes
to me and he goes, he had his camera
out. He goes, "So, what do you reckon
you'd be able to front squat now?" I'm
like, "I don't know. 260 just saying
it." And he goes and he gets his camera
and he goes, "All right, you hear that?
You heard it here first. Bass is going
for a 260 front squat today." I'm like,
"Fuck you." Video actually. Yeah. So,
then I did uh I did 260. Yeah. Wow.
Yeah. It was a nice lift and I still
post it to this day. That's very
impressive. Thank you. Someone that
doesn't train for someone who doesn't
front squat, that's still world class.
That's a world class run squad for world
class. Okay. Okay. I'll take that. I'll
take that.
Perfect. Hands as well. Hands. Hands.
One. All right. Here he is. Let's go.
Have a look at this muscle. Muscle
snatch.
Let's go, bro. Come on. Come on. Come
on. Let's go. Let's go. Come on.
[Applause]
counts.
Does that count? Yeah, for sure. Oh, it
counts. It counts. It counts in muscle
snatch. There's no rules.
That's so funny.
That's hilarious. Damn, that's
hilarious. Beautiful.
[Applause]
Beautiful. That's pretty. Hey, Vasa.
You going to do 140?
I think you should, bro. Yeah, I think
you should, too. Whatever I do, just
come and do it, bro. Yeah.
Perfect. Yeah.
Hands. Yes.
[Applause]
Let's go. Big go. Let's go.
All right. Let's go. V.
Is he going for a power clean?
Muscle clean. Is it called muscle clean?
Muscle clean press. Muscle. Yeah.
That's the press. You're not allowed to
use your legs for the press.
[Laughter]
So, first wider. Try to get tiny wider.
Yeah.
Let's go, Vas. Come on, bro.
Let's go.
Come on, Vass.
Wait, I can do what he did.
Let's go.
How did Did it [__] him up that it was
too wide the grip? No, it's it's hard
here cuz as it gets heavier it's you
need that momentum and you need one kilo
makes the biggest difference in that.
That's why like with weightlifting
strength versus technique and power it's
like
the strongest person in the room but
technique position and years of practice
isn't in there. So, is Kerwistami the
champion in your weight class? Uh,
former. Yeah, former. Yeah, jumps are
good like that. So, he So, that's
something I noticed about him. His arms
are skinny ass. And And I saw him do
like a 220 clean and jerk. He just so
technical. Yeah. And it's like Yeah. You
obviously don't need massive jacked up
body. The ideal physique for a weight
lifter is huge quads, strong lower
backs, just big traps. That's it. And
arms don't matter.
Pressing strength. Oh, it depends. 50%
of my jerk. So, I can jerk 200. My best
press is 100. But remember, way you
unlock and do that lift. So, there's no
point having
to me
it's not that press up. So, I don't
really need a lot of hypertrophy around
chest sort of area. But you still got
muscle there. Yeah. Do do you train
presses? Yeah, I do. I train presses
three, four times per week behind the
neck in a snatch grip and military
press, but a lot more behind the neck
work. Yep. Yeah. On in the squat
position. Yeah.
You want to try that one?
[Music]
Very technical. Hold on. Very
weightlifting is very technical. All
right. So, I'm I'm going to do what
you're trying to do, but my hips
through. Yeah. So, 160 power clean.
Power clean. And power cleans and one
split. Split. One split j like a lunge.
Oh, two split jerks. Two power clean,
one split j. All right, let's go. Let's
get it, brother.
[Applause]
Yes. Come on. Head in. Let's go.
Nice. Good.
Those squats took it out of you.
So good. First one's a bit daunting. So
good.
How good. Is that all right? How good.
I've never done it before. Is that
right? That was so funny. Never done it
before. Oh, good. Did it once. Your grip
is bad. Is that right? I mean, it is a
way like technically wider stance, so
it's a better lever. You know what I
mean? Like the closer the stance, the
stronger you have to be. Yeah. Which is
still like that was a good technique.
And that was very easy. Do people do
excursion? Hook grip is preferred for a
sumo because when your hands are in
closer like that, like you really feel
the twist.
Yeah. So, the best sumo deadlifters are
all hook grip and also it's stronger.
Yeah. So, you know, the best
conventional deadlifters aren't I don't
know why, but they should get into hook
grip. Yeah. We we hook grip and
weightlifting. Yeah. You got no choice.
You got no choice. We we we wear straps
a lot, too. Yeah. Cuz if you hook, too.
But I mean, you can't do just grab it
double overhand with the weights you're
trying to do. No way. No. No way. Yeah.
I reckon not even 120 like that, right?
I mean, like my group strength actually
sucks.
Yeah. What's the most you've deadlifted?
Uh 250 I've done. Really? I've
done tried. What
about 180? You done 180? I've done 190
in sumo. Really? I've never done like
Yeah. I just stopped messing around
after training. Yeah. Our bench presses
are so bad. I b
147 weight. It's very good. Yeah, it's
for if you don't [__] press what's
good for a girl, 90 is very good for a
girl. Like not many girls are doing 100.
So if you can like 100 is really good
for a chick. Not like 90 is good for a
girl, but 100 is good for a girl. I
recently
that's a wrap. Uh I just did my low bar
powerlifting squat. Kyle did his high
bar weightlifting squat. You can see the
difference in intensity. I was maxing
out and this was just a warm up for him.
So, don't focus on the weight that we
lifted. Focus on the technique. Look at
the size of his legs. Like, I'm going to
have to do it, right? I'm going to have
to do the comparison and just get just
get smashed by him. So, his his legs.
Come here. Come here. Get over here.
Look at this. Right. So, this is me. I
just did a really heavy squat, but my
legs aren't as big as these guys. Right.
So, these are weightlifterss. This is a
powerlifter. They put me to shame. Uh
it's it's what it is. Right. So that's
why I need to be doing a lot of quad
direct quadricep work if I want to build
my quads because that type of squat
doesn't build quads. Um but what a
succession with these guys. Absolute
beast. Both of them. Go and give them a
follow. I'll leave all their details uh
in the comments section if you want to
learn about weightlifting. Whether it's
to be a weightlifter, crossfitter, or an
athlete that wants to develop power,
these are the guys to go to uh in
Australia, the best weightlifterss in
Australia. Thank you guys so much for
coming. Thanks so much, bro. Appreciate
it. Thank you so much. Speak to you guys
soon. Beautiful.